/////////////////////
// Matthew Wolf    //
// CIS 630 - HW #1 //
// Oct. 4, 2003    //
/////////////////////

-----------------------

(2) Since the definition of 'rational' involves acting to achieve the best outcome (or best
    expected outcome), then a reflex reaction such as moving your hand away from a hot stove
    is considered rational since you are selecting the best outcome given the situation. Although
    this reflex reaction is considered rational, this type of reaction might not be considered
    intelligent though. Since an intelligent reaction is considered more of a deliberate thought
    process, a reflex reaction such as the hot stove situation does not appear to possess these
    qualities, and therefore is not considered to be an intelligent action, even though it is
    rational.

-----------------------

(3) A good approach to this situation is to use sensory abilities as much as possible in order to
    prove that you are not a chatbot. Since an advanced chatbot would be able to reason with valid
    sentences provided by the person at the other end, it is important to try getting the person to
    give sentences and phrases that are not complete or standard in any way, yet are able to be read
    by an ordinary human. More specifically, humans are able to recognize words primarily by the
    first and last letters in the word, and usually skim across the words in the middle. Since this
    is the case, the person at the other end can create words that almost look like words humans
    know, so that the chatbot would become confused with the word, yet a human can recognize it. To
    illustrate what I mean by saying this, most humans should be able to read the following few
    sentences:

    It deosn't mttaer in waht oredr the ltteers in a wrod are, the olny iprmoatnt tihng is taht the
    frist and lsat ltteer be at the rghit pclae. The rset can be a total mses and you can sitll raed
    it wouthit porbelm. Tihs is bcuseae the huamn mnid deos not raed ervey lteter by istlef, but the
    wrod as a wlohe.

-----------------------

(4) A test to determine the intelligence between two humans should first include some sort of
    environment. This should be set up in a competitive multiagent environment, since the point of
    the experiment is to find out which of the two humans is more intelligent. From this competitive
    environment, a performance measure should be deciphered, so that both parties can strive to
    obtain the higest performance measure. Since it is a competitive environment, the positive
    actions made by one human negatively affects the performance measure of the other, and vice versa.
    A good test would also include a variety of environments as well, to make sure that the human
    with the highest performance measure in one environment is better in practically all the
    environments. This would of course make the test more robust as a whole. An example of one such
    competitive environment that could used is the game of chess. This sort of game fits all the
    criteria listed above, with the performance measure being to win the game.

-----------------------

(5) If a chess program can continuously beat its creator at chess, then it is capable of storing more
    information about future occurances and the consequences of its actions than the actual programmer.
    This simply means that the chess program has made better rational decisions in the environment
    than the programmer at chess, indicating that the program is more intelligent at chess. It is
    important to distinguish overall intelligence and intelligence at a specific task though, since
    the programmer is of course more intelligent than the program at all other tasks possible.
    Considering the quote about machines not being intelligent, this statement is invalid considering
    a machine is able to compute many more possibilities in a much shorter time than humans currently
    are able to, thus allowing the machine to make better rational decisions in chess. This technically
    means that the machine is more intelligent than the programmer for the specific task of chess since
    the machine can make these kinds of extremely rational calculations.

-----------------------

(6) Copper Caper (1999)

    In this particular story, Wayne incorrectly identified the piece of metal to be a copper pipe, instead
    of the aluminum pipe holding 11,000 volts of power. Basically, his sensors failed to realize what the
    "world is like now", and therefore, after his actions of cutting the pipe, he got unexpected results.
    In more technical terms, Wayne initially failed to correctly translate perceptions into knowledge,
    which in turn led to the failure of correctly choosing actions.

    Bees 1, Humans 0 (2002)

    In this beehive story, the farm keeper positively identified the situation with his sensors, made a
    good decision/action in terms of protecting his head from the bees with the plastic bag, but failed
    to identify fully what his actions would do. Although the bag would have protected his head from the
    bees to a certain extent, he did not grasp the fact that putting the bag over his head would also
    take all his oxygen away from his lungs. More technically, the farm keeper failed to correctly model
    the effect of his actions on the state of the world, and therefore did not identify one particular
    effect that turned out to be fatal.

    I Can't Swim! (2002)

    In this swimming story, the boat operator positively identified the water, yet failed to realize
    his own capabilities, and acted in a poor manner. The boat operator correctly identified "what the
    world is like now", yet failed to realize "what it will be like if he jumps in the water". Apparently,
    he didn't realize the fact that he can't swim at the moment when he jumped in the water. More
    technically, the boat operator failed to correctly assess which actions he could perform given the
    state of the world, and therefore ended up drowning.

-----------------------